# Confidence_evaluator
This is our repository for the final submission of Aries Project. The project is based upon the application of neural networks and some other architectures 
The complete project is based upon 3 models which are as follows:
1. Iris detection: This is based on CNN architecture and is used to find out the whether the person in front of the camera is confident enough to make an eye contact 
    with the camera. It annotates the iris to locate the eyes on screen.
    The collection of the data was done by a general, image capturing algorithm which uses the camera of your laptop.
    It uses the following libraries:
    tensorflow,
    keras,
    os,
    cv2,
    json,
    numpy, 
    uuid,
    matplotlib.pyplot,
    The complete data set was generated by us and hence, we can trust on the accuracy of the model. Initially, only 30 images were manually labelled. The rest were
    augmented and were automatically labelled by the algorithm. After augmentation, the dataset grew from 30 to 5042 images.
    The model uses ResNet (Residual Networks) architecture to reduce the chances of Vanishing/Exploding gradient. These occur when the Neural Network that is used has
    a huge number of layers.

2. Lip reading model: This model is based on CNN and is the base by which we generate the subtitles for evaluating the preparation of a speaker who is practising in
    front of the screen. This model takes the visual input and converts it into a string whioch can easily be evaluated for mis-pronunciation.
    It uses the following libraries:
    os,
    cv2,
    numpy,
    typing,
    matplotlib,
    imageio,
    tensorflow,\n
    The main feature which distinguishes this model from the other lip reading model is that, it uses an imageio.mimsave() function which creates a GIF of the short 
    clip which is easier for the model to understand as:
    a) It is converted into grescale, thus has only 2 colors to distinguish between.
    b) It plays repetitively thus, the neural network gets a lot of chance to work on the errors and to rectify them.

3. Spelling Checker Model: This is a rather simple model which uses nltk (Natural Language Toolkit). It is a popular Python library for natural language processing (NLP) tasks. It provides a suite of libraries and programs for various NLP tasks such as tokenization, part-of-speech tagging, named entity recognition, sentiment analysis, and more. 
    It uses the following libraries:
    re (regular expressions),
    tkinter,
    nltk,
    In this model, a white-blank box opens in which the string generated from the lip reading model is feeded and hence evaluates the string and hence the user 
    on the basis of mispronunciation.
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
